---
title: "Prometheus, Python, Flask"
date: 2018-02-02
tags: 
 - python
 - kubernetes
 - gunicorn
 - flask
---

 **Python** based apps are significant part of the ecosystem in our company. In the era of microservices there is really no difference which technology is in use under the hood. But each service should provide its own API and the way to monitor its&nbsp;state.

In our setup we use [**Prometheus**](https://prometheus.io/) to aggregate metrics from all our services. And it works fine. Especially with our **JVM** apps. But that was not a case for all out Pythons till&nbsp;today.

As a historical tradition our Pythons apps are mostly done with [**Flask**](http://flask.pocoo.org/). And it is a nice framework. In some cases it is also wrapped with [**Gunicorn**](http://gunicorn.org/). And here is a tutorial how to make it work with Prometheus:
<!-- more -->
1. Add the dependency to your project **setup.py** to prometheus\_client==0.1.1
2. Inside your application define some metrics you want to collect, for example: FLASK\_REQUEST\_LATENCY = Histogram(\_\_name\_\_.replace(‘.’, ‘\_’) + ‘\_request\_latency\_seconds’, ‘Flask Request Latency’)&nbsp;.
3. Annotate a method you want to measure with @FLASK\_REQUEST\_LATENCY.time()
4. Add endpoint to expose the statistics:

```python
@app.route('/stats', methods=['GET'])
def metrics():
    return generate_latest(registry), 200 #registry is global
```

And that’s it! If your app is just plain Flask without Gunicorn. To make it work in multiprocessor scenario you need to make several additional steps:

5. Create config for Gunicorn:

```python
def worker_exit(server, worker):
    from prometheus_client import multiprocess
    multiprocess.mark_process_dead(worker.pid)
```

6. This config can be provided to **gunicorn** cli with **-c** &nbsp;flag.

7. Add Environment variable prometheus\_multiproc\_dir that should point to a directory where Prometheus can temporarily store the metrics. If you use **Kubernetes** update the deployment descriptor to mount **Volume** with **emptyDir** &nbsp;type.

8. And the last thing to do — update code for your /stats endpoint like&nbsp;this:

```python
@app.route('/stats', methods=['GET'])
def metrics():
    registry = CollectorRegistry()
    multiprocess.MultiProcessCollector(registry)
    return generate_latest(registry), 200
```    

I hope this short guide can be useful and will help you to make your apps measurable and system more reliable.